README.md, before:

Waveform Playlist
=================

Inspired by [Audacity](http://audacity.sourceforge.net/), this project is a multiple track playlist editor written in ES2015 using the [Web Audio API](http://webaudio.github.io/web-audio-api/).

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/waveform-playlist.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/waveform-playlist)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/naomiaro/waveform-playlist.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/naomiaro/waveform-playlist)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/naomiaro/waveform-playlist/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/naomiaro/waveform-playlist?branch=master)

Load tracks and set cues (track cue in, cue out), fades (track fade in, fade out) and track start/end times within the playlist.
I've written up some demos on github for the different [audio fade types](https://github.com/naomiaro/Web-Audio-Fades) in the project.

[See examples in action](http://naomiaro.github.io/waveform-playlist)

![Screenshot](img/stemtracks.png?raw=true "stem tracks mute solo volume control")
(code for picture shown can be found in dist/examples/stem-tracks.html)

[Try out the waveform editor!](http://naomiaro.github.io/waveform-playlist/web-audio-editor.html)


## Browser Support

Waveform Playlist requires webaudio in the browser to function correctly: [Can I Use?](http://caniuse.com/#search=webaudio)


## Installation

`npm install waveform-playlist`


* If you want to download and run the already compiled website, navigate to folder `/dist` and run `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000`. The website will be available at `localhost:8000/waveform-playlist`.


## Basic Usage

Starter styles can be found in the npm package download at `waveform-playlist/styles/playlist.scss`

```javascript
var WaveformPlaylist = require('waveform-playlist');

var playlist = WaveformPlaylist.init({
  samplesPerPixel: 3000,
  mono: true,
  waveHeight: 70,
  container: document.getElementById('playlist'),
  state: 'cursor',
  colors: {
    waveOutlineColor: '#E0EFF1',
    timeColor: 'grey',
    fadeColor: 'black'
  },
  controls: {
    show: true,
    width: 200
  },
  zoomLevels: [500, 1000, 3000, 5000]
});

playlist.load([
  {
    src: 'media/audio/Vocals30.mp3',
    name: 'Vocals',
    gain: 0.5,
  },
  {
    src: 'media/audio/BassDrums30.mp3',
    name: 'Drums',
    start: 8.5,
    fadeIn: {
      duration: 0.5,
    },
    fadeOut: {
      shape: 'logarithmic',
      duration: 0.5,
    },
  },
  {
    src: 'media/audio/Guitar30.mp3',
    name: 'Guitar',
    start: 23.5,
    fadeOut: {
      shape: 'linear',
      duration: 0.5,
    },
    cuein: 15,
  }
]).then(function() {
  // can do stuff with the playlist.
});
```

### Playlist Options

```javascript
var options = {

  // webaudio api AudioContext
  ac: new (window.AudioContext || window.webkitAudioContext),

  // DOM container element REQUIRED
  container: document.getElementById('playlist'),

  // sample rate of the project. (used for correct peaks rendering)
  sampleRate: new (window.AudioContext || window.webkitAudioContext).sampleRate,

  // number of audio samples per waveform peak.
  // must be an entry in option: zoomLevels.
  samplesPerPixel: 4096,

  // whether to draw multiple channels or combine them.
  mono: true,

  // enables "exclusive solo" where solo switches between tracks
  exclSolo: false,

  // default fade curve type.
  fadeType: 'logarithmic', // (logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential)

  // whether or not to include the time measure.
  timescale: false,

  // control panel on left side of waveform
  controls: {
    // whether or not to include the track controls
    show: false,

    // width of controls in pixels
    width: 150,
  },

  colors: {
    // color of the wave background
    waveOutlineColor: 'white',

    // color of the time ticks on the canvas
    timeColor: 'grey',

    // color of the fade drawn on canvas
    fadeColor: 'black',
  },

  // height in pixels of each canvas element a waveform is on.
  waveHeight: 128,

  // interaction state of the playlist
  // (cursor | select | fadein | fadeout | shift)
  state: 'cursor',

  // (line | fill)
  seekStyle : 'line',

  // Array of zoom levels in samples per pixel.
  // Smaller numbers have a greater zoom in.
  zoomLevels: [512, 1024, 2048, 4096],
};
```

### Track Options

```javascript
{
  // a media path for XHR or a File object.
  src: 'media/audio/BassDrums30.mp3',

  // name that will display in the playlist control panel.
  name: 'Drums',

  // volume level of the track between [0-1]
  gain: 1,

  // whether the track should initially be muted.
  muted: false,

  // whether the track should initially be soloed.
  soloed: false,

  // time in seconds relative to the playlist
  // ex (track will start after 8.5 seconds)
  / /DEFAULT 0 - track starts at beginning of playlist
  start: 8.5,

  // track fade in details
  fadeIn: {
    // fade curve shape
    // (logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential)
    shape: 'logarithmic',

    // length of fade starting from the beginning of this track, in seconds.
    duration: 0.5,
  },

  // track fade out details
  fadeOut: {
    // fade curve shape
    // (logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential)
    shape: 'logarithmic',

    //length of fade which reaches the end of this track, in seconds.
    duration: 0.5,
  }

  // where the waveform for this track should begin from
  // ex (Waveform will begin 15 seconds into this track)
  // DEFAULT start at the beginning - 0 seconds
  cuein: 15,

  // where the waveform for this track should end
  // ex (Waveform will end at 30 second into this track)
  // DEFAULT duration of the track
  cueout: 30,

  // custom class for unique track styling
  customClass: 'vocals',

  // custom background-color for the canvas-drawn waveform
  waveOutlineColor: '#f3f3f3',

  // interaction states allowed on this track.
  // DEFAULT - all true
  states: {
    cursor: true,
    fadein: true,
    fadeout: true,
    select: true,
    shift: true,
  },

  // pre-selected section on track.
  // ONLY ONE selection is permitted in a list of tracks, will take most recently set if multiple passed.
  // This track is marked as 'active'
  selected: {
    // start time of selection in seconds, relative to the playlist
    start: 5,

    // end time of selection in seconds, relative to the playlist
    end: 15,
  },
}
```

### Playlist Events

Waveform Playlist uses an instance of [event-emitter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/event-emitter) to send & receive messages from the playlist.

```javascript
var EventEmitter = require('event-emitter');
var WaveformPlaylist = require('waveform-playlist');

var playlist = WaveformPlaylist.init(
  {
    container: document.getElementById('playlist'),
  },

  // you can pass your own event emitter
  EventEmitter(),
);

// retrieves the event emitter the playlist is using.
var ee = playlist.getEventEmitter();
```

An example of using the event emitter to control the playlist can be found in [/dist/js/examples/emitter.js](https://github.com/naomiaro/waveform-playlist/blob/master/dist/js/examples/emitter.js)

#### Events to Invoke

| event | arguments | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `play` | `start:optional, end:optional` | Starts playout of the playlist. Takes optional Number parameters in seconds `start` and `end` to play just an audio segment. `start` can be passed without an `end` to play to the end of the track. |
| `pause` | _none_ | Pauses playout of the playlist. |
| `stop` | _none_ | Stops playout of the playlist. |
| `rewind` | _none_ | Stops playout if playlist is playing, resets cursor to the beginning of the playlist. |
| `fastforward` | _none_ | Stops playout if playlist is playing, resets cursor to the end of the playlist. |
| `clear` | _none_ | Stops playout if playlist is playing, removes all tracks from the playlist. |
| `record` | _none_ | Starts recording an audio track. Begins playout of other tracks in playlist if there are any. |
| `zoomin` | _none_ | Changes zoom level to the next smallest entry (if one exists) from the array `zoomLevels`. |
| `zoomout` | _none_ | Changes zoom level to the next largest entry (if one exists) from the array `zoomLevels`. |
| `trim` | _none_ | Trims currently active track to the cursor selection. |
| `statechange` | (`cursor | select | fadein | fadeout | shift`) | Changes interaction state to the state given. |
| `fadetype` | (`logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential`) | Changes playlist default fade type. |
| `newtrack` | `File` | Loads `File` object into the playlist. |
| `volumechange` | `volume, track` | Set volume of `track` to `volume` (0-100) |
| `mastervolumechange` | `volume` | Set a new master volume `volume` (0-100) |
| `select` | `start, end, track:optional` | Seek to the start time or start/end selection optionally with active track `track`. |
| `startaudiorendering` | (`wav | buffer`) | Request for a downloadable file or web Audio buffer that represent the current work |

#### Events to Listen to

| event | arguments | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `select` | `start, end, track` | Cursor selection has occurred from `start` to `end` with active Track `track`. |
| `timeupdate` | `playbackPosition` | Sends current position of playout `playbackPosition` in seconds. |
| `scroll` | `scrollLeft` | Sends current position of scroll `scrollLeft` in seconds. |
| `statechange` | `state` | Sends current interaction state `state`. |
| `shift` | `deltaTime, track` | Sends `deltaTime` in seconds change for Track `track` |
| `mute` | `track` | Mute button has been pressed for `track` |
| `solo` | `track` | Solo button has been pressed for `track` |
| `volumechange` | `volume, track` | Volume of `track` has changed to `volume` (0-100) |
| `mastervolumechange` | `volume` | Master volume of the playlist has changed to `volume` (0-100) |
| `audiorequeststatechange` | `state, src` | Loading audio `src` (`string` or `File`) is now in state [`state`](https://github.com/naomiaro/waveform-playlist/wiki/Track-Loading-States) (Number) |
| `loadprogress` | `percent, src` | Loading audio `src` has loaded percent `percent` (0-100) |
| `audiosourcesloaded` | _none_ | Audio decoding has finished for all tracks |
| `audiosourcesrendered` | _none_ | Tracks are rendered to the playlist |
| `finished` | _none_ | Event fired when cursor ( while playing ) reaches the end (maximum duration) |
| `audiorenderingfinished` | `type, data` | Return the result of the rendering in the desired format. `type` can be `buffer` or `wav` and can be used to dertermine the  `data` type. When `type` is `wav`, data is a `blob` object that represent the wav file. |

## Tests

  `npm test`

## Development

  `npm start`

  `http://localhost:8080/waveform-playlist/`

  This will build the jekyll site and startup the webpack dev server.

  `npm run jekyll:dev`

  This can be run to continuously build the jekyll pages as well if they are modified.

## Credits

Originally created for the [Airtime](https://www.sourcefabric.org/en/airtime/) project at [Sourcefabric](https://www.sourcefabric.org/)


## License

[MIT License](http://doge.mit-license.org)

Commit message:

Update dev process to include Jekyll watch.

README.md, after:

Waveform Playlist
=================

Inspired by [Audacity](http://audacity.sourceforge.net/), this project is a multiple track playlist editor written in ES2015 using the [Web Audio API](http://webaudio.github.io/web-audio-api/).

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/waveform-playlist.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/waveform-playlist)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/naomiaro/waveform-playlist.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/naomiaro/waveform-playlist)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/naomiaro/waveform-playlist/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/naomiaro/waveform-playlist?branch=master)

Load tracks and set cues (track cue in, cue out), fades (track fade in, fade out) and track start/end times within the playlist.
I've written up some demos on github for the different [audio fade types](https://github.com/naomiaro/Web-Audio-Fades) in the project.

[See examples in action](http://naomiaro.github.io/waveform-playlist)

![Screenshot](img/stemtracks.png?raw=true "stem tracks mute solo volume control")
(code for picture shown can be found in dist/examples/stem-tracks.html)

[Try out the waveform editor!](http://naomiaro.github.io/waveform-playlist/web-audio-editor.html)


## Browser Support

Waveform Playlist requires webaudio in the browser to function correctly: [Can I Use?](http://caniuse.com/#search=webaudio)


## Installation

`npm install waveform-playlist`


* If you want to download and run the already compiled website, navigate to folder `/dist` and run `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000`. The website will be available at `localhost:8000/waveform-playlist`.


## Basic Usage

Starter styles can be found in the npm package download at `waveform-playlist/styles/playlist.scss`

```javascript
var WaveformPlaylist = require('waveform-playlist');

var playlist = WaveformPlaylist.init({
  samplesPerPixel: 3000,
  mono: true,
  waveHeight: 70,
  container: document.getElementById('playlist'),
  state: 'cursor',
  colors: {
    waveOutlineColor: '#E0EFF1',
    timeColor: 'grey',
    fadeColor: 'black'
  },
  controls: {
    show: true,
    width: 200
  },
  zoomLevels: [500, 1000, 3000, 5000]
});

playlist.load([
  {
    src: 'media/audio/Vocals30.mp3',
    name: 'Vocals',
    gain: 0.5,
  },
  {
    src: 'media/audio/BassDrums30.mp3',
    name: 'Drums',
    start: 8.5,
    fadeIn: {
      duration: 0.5,
    },
    fadeOut: {
      shape: 'logarithmic',
      duration: 0.5,
    },
  },
  {
    src: 'media/audio/Guitar30.mp3',
    name: 'Guitar',
    start: 23.5,
    fadeOut: {
      shape: 'linear',
      duration: 0.5,
    },
    cuein: 15,
  }
]).then(function() {
  // can do stuff with the playlist.
});
```

### Playlist Options

```javascript
var options = {

  // webaudio api AudioContext
  ac: new (window.AudioContext || window.webkitAudioContext),

  // DOM container element REQUIRED
  container: document.getElementById('playlist'),

  // sample rate of the project. (used for correct peaks rendering)
  sampleRate: new (window.AudioContext || window.webkitAudioContext).sampleRate,

  // number of audio samples per waveform peak.
  // must be an entry in option: zoomLevels.
  samplesPerPixel: 4096,

  // whether to draw multiple channels or combine them.
  mono: true,

  // enables "exclusive solo" where solo switches between tracks
  exclSolo: false,

  // default fade curve type.
  fadeType: 'logarithmic', // (logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential)

  // whether or not to include the time measure.
  timescale: false,

  // control panel on left side of waveform
  controls: {
    // whether or not to include the track controls
    show: false,

    // width of controls in pixels
    width: 150,
  },

  colors: {
    // color of the wave background
    waveOutlineColor: 'white',

    // color of the time ticks on the canvas
    timeColor: 'grey',

    // color of the fade drawn on canvas
    fadeColor: 'black',
  },

  // height in pixels of each canvas element a waveform is on.
  waveHeight: 128,

  // interaction state of the playlist
  // (cursor | select | fadein | fadeout | shift)
  state: 'cursor',

  // (line | fill)
  seekStyle : 'line',

  // Array of zoom levels in samples per pixel.
  // Smaller numbers have a greater zoom in.
  zoomLevels: [512, 1024, 2048, 4096],
};
```

### Track Options

```javascript
{
  // a media path for XHR or a File object.
  src: 'media/audio/BassDrums30.mp3',

  // name that will display in the playlist control panel.
  name: 'Drums',

  // volume level of the track between [0-1]
  gain: 1,

  // whether the track should initially be muted.
  muted: false,

  // whether the track should initially be soloed.
  soloed: false,

  // time in seconds relative to the playlist
  // ex (track will start after 8.5 seconds)
  / /DEFAULT 0 - track starts at beginning of playlist
  start: 8.5,

  // track fade in details
  fadeIn: {
    // fade curve shape
    // (logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential)
    shape: 'logarithmic',

    // length of fade starting from the beginning of this track, in seconds.
    duration: 0.5,
  },

  // track fade out details
  fadeOut: {
    // fade curve shape
    // (logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential)
    shape: 'logarithmic',

    //length of fade which reaches the end of this track, in seconds.
    duration: 0.5,
  }

  // where the waveform for this track should begin from
  // ex (Waveform will begin 15 seconds into this track)
  // DEFAULT start at the beginning - 0 seconds
  cuein: 15,

  // where the waveform for this track should end
  // ex (Waveform will end at 30 second into this track)
  // DEFAULT duration of the track
  cueout: 30,

  // custom class for unique track styling
  customClass: 'vocals',

  // custom background-color for the canvas-drawn waveform
  waveOutlineColor: '#f3f3f3',

  // interaction states allowed on this track.
  // DEFAULT - all true
  states: {
    cursor: true,
    fadein: true,
    fadeout: true,
    select: true,
    shift: true,
  },

  // pre-selected section on track.
  // ONLY ONE selection is permitted in a list of tracks, will take most recently set if multiple passed.
  // This track is marked as 'active'
  selected: {
    // start time of selection in seconds, relative to the playlist
    start: 5,

    // end time of selection in seconds, relative to the playlist
    end: 15,
  },
}
```

### Playlist Events

Waveform Playlist uses an instance of [event-emitter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/event-emitter) to send & receive messages from the playlist.

```javascript
var EventEmitter = require('event-emitter');
var WaveformPlaylist = require('waveform-playlist');

var playlist = WaveformPlaylist.init(
  {
    container: document.getElementById('playlist'),
  },

  // you can pass your own event emitter
  EventEmitter(),
);

// retrieves the event emitter the playlist is using.
var ee = playlist.getEventEmitter();
```

An example of using the event emitter to control the playlist can be found in [/dist/js/examples/emitter.js](https://github.com/naomiaro/waveform-playlist/blob/master/dist/js/examples/emitter.js)

#### Events to Invoke

| event | arguments | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `play` | `start:optional, end:optional` | Starts playout of the playlist. Takes optional Number parameters in seconds `start` and `end` to play just an audio segment. `start` can be passed without an `end` to play to the end of the track. |
| `pause` | _none_ | Pauses playout of the playlist. |
| `stop` | _none_ | Stops playout of the playlist. |
| `rewind` | _none_ | Stops playout if playlist is playing, resets cursor to the beginning of the playlist. |
| `fastforward` | _none_ | Stops playout if playlist is playing, resets cursor to the end of the playlist. |
| `clear` | _none_ | Stops playout if playlist is playing, removes all tracks from the playlist. |
| `record` | _none_ | Starts recording an audio track. Begins playout of other tracks in playlist if there are any. |
| `zoomin` | _none_ | Changes zoom level to the next smallest entry (if one exists) from the array `zoomLevels`. |
| `zoomout` | _none_ | Changes zoom level to the next largest entry (if one exists) from the array `zoomLevels`. |
| `trim` | _none_ | Trims currently active track to the cursor selection. |
| `statechange` | (`cursor | select | fadein | fadeout | shift`) | Changes interaction state to the state given. |
| `fadetype` | (`logarithmic | linear | sCurve | exponential`) | Changes playlist default fade type. |
| `newtrack` | `File` | Loads `File` object into the playlist. |
| `volumechange` | `volume, track` | Set volume of `track` to `volume` (0-100) |
| `mastervolumechange` | `volume` | Set a new master volume `volume` (0-100) |
| `select` | `start, end, track:optional` | Seek to the start time or start/end selection optionally with active track `track`. |
| `startaudiorendering` | (`wav | buffer`) | Request for a downloadable file or web Audio buffer that represent the current work |

#### Events to Listen to

| event | arguments | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `select` | `start, end, track` | Cursor selection has occurred from `start` to `end` with active Track `track`. |
| `timeupdate` | `playbackPosition` | Sends current position of playout `playbackPosition` in seconds. |
| `scroll` | `scrollLeft` | Sends current position of scroll `scrollLeft` in seconds. |
| `statechange` | `state` | Sends current interaction state `state`. |
| `shift` | `deltaTime, track` | Sends `deltaTime` in seconds change for Track `track` |
| `mute` | `track` | Mute button has been pressed for `track` |
| `solo` | `track` | Solo button has been pressed for `track` |
| `volumechange` | `volume, track` | Volume of `track` has changed to `volume` (0-100) |
| `mastervolumechange` | `volume` | Master volume of the playlist has changed to `volume` (0-100) |
| `audiorequeststatechange` | `state, src` | Loading audio `src` (`string` or `File`) is now in state [`state`](https://github.com/naomiaro/waveform-playlist/wiki/Track-Loading-States) (Number) |
| `loadprogress` | `percent, src` | Loading audio `src` has loaded percent `percent` (0-100) |
| `audiosourcesloaded` | _none_ | Audio decoding has finished for all tracks |
| `audiosourcesrendered` | _none_ | Tracks are rendered to the playlist |
| `finished` | _none_ | Event fired when cursor ( while playing ) reaches the end (maximum duration) |
| `audiorenderingfinished` | `type, data` | Return the result of the rendering in the desired format. `type` can be `buffer` or `wav` and can be used to dertermine the  `data` type. When `type` is `wav`, data is a `blob` object that represent the wav file. |

## Tests

  `npm test`

## Development without example changes

  `npm install && npm start`

  This will install dependencies and start the webpack server.


## Development with example changes

  `gem install jekyll`

  Jekyll is needed if changes to the example pages will be done.

  `npm install && npm run dev`

  This will build and watch the jekyll site and startup the webpack dev server.


## Credits

Originally created for the [Airtime](https://www.sourcefabric.org/en/airtime/) project at [Sourcefabric](https://www.sourcefabric.org/)


## License

[MIT License](http://doge.mit-license.org)
